---
layout: post
title: "Watch \"The Loving Story\" at the National Archives"
date: 2014-01-09 18:30-05:00
---
Let's meet at 6:30. The show starts at 7:00.

Here is the description from the Archives website:

On Thursday, January 9, at 7 PM, the National Archives presents a program and screening of the The Loving Story, a documentary about Mildred and Richard Loving whose so-called "mixed" marriage was deemed illegal by their home state of Virginia, and whose case rose to the Supreme Court. Director Nancy Buirski and attorney Phil Hirschkop, an ACLU attorney who represented the Lovings, are scheduled to discuss the film.

This event, held in celebration of new "Records of Rights" permanent exhibit, is free and open to the public, and will be held in the William G. McGowan Theater (http://www.archives.gov/nae/visit/theater.html)of the National Archives Building in Washington, DC (http://www.archives.gov/nae/visit/). Attendees should use the Special Events entrance on Constitution Avenue at 7th St., NW. This special program is presented in partnership with the Charles Guggenheim Center for the Documentary Film at the National Archives.

About The Loving Story A racially charged criminal trial and a heart-rending love story converge in this 2011 documentary film about Mildred and Richard Loving. The marriage of Mildred (who was part African American black and part Native American) and Richard (who was white) was declared illegal in 1958 by their home state of Virginia. They refused to leave one another and, with the help of the ACLU, pursued their right to happiness. Their case reached the U.S. Supreme Court, which in 1967 struck down laws against interracial marriage in this country. With newly discovered footage of the Lovings and their lawyers, first-person testimony, and rare documentary photographs, this film takes us behind the scenes of the legal challenges and the emotional turmoil of the landmark case. (77 minutes.)
