---
layout: post
title: "Movie- Trumbo"
date: 2015-11-22 16:00-05:00
---
Below is a description of this movie. Afterwards we can pick a place to eat in Shirlington if folks are up for a discussion of the McCarthy era. According to the web site, it is not possible to reserve tickets in advance through Fandango, so you might want to arrive a bit early. The movie starts at 4:15. Let's meet in the lobby after you get your ticket.

Jay Roach (http://variety.com/t/jay-roach/), director of “Trumbo (http://variety.com/t/trumbo/),” says even though the height of Hollywood’s blacklist era was six decades ago, his movie is still a “cautionary tale” of the hysteria that can devolve from attacks on free speech.

In many cases, it took decades for credits to be restored on movies written under pseudonyms by blacklisted writers or credited to “fronts” who were not shut out from employment.

“I think there is a certain repressed memory in Hollywood,” Roach tells Variety‘s “PopPolitics” on SiriusXM. “…Unless somebody wants to say, ‘Really, hey, we should remember this so we don’t repeat it.’ It is really a powerful cautionary tale.”

“It is hard to imagine, but I do think there is a possibility,” he adds of the chance of such an event happening today. “You already [see people] trying to defund universities for having political views. Right now, in the middle of this political campaign, that has become an interesting issue, just to try to shut down divergent dissenting political ideas. Who knows if it can happen in Hollywood. But I think these stories are important to tell as cautionary tales.”

“Trumbo” tells the story of one of Hollywood’s most self-professed screenwriters, Dalton Trumbo, whose refusal to answer the question of whether he was, or ever had been, a Communist before a congressional committee in 1947 led to his blacklisting. He worked by screenwriting through “fronts,” turning out Oscar-winning screenplays for “Roman Holiday” and “The Brave One” before the blacklist eventually dissipated in 1960 when he was credited for Otto Preminger’s “Exodus” and “Spartacus” starring Kirk Douglas.

Roach also talks about the influence of the media in pushing the Red scare in Hollywood, and how he knew one of the “Hollywood ten,” the showbiz figures who served time in prison for contempt of Congress. Edward Dmytryk was one of Roach’s directing teachers at USC’s film school.
