---
layout: post
title: "Talk and Discussion with Ross Howell Jr., author of Forsaken"
date: 2016-03-18 19:00-04:00
---
Author Ross Howell, Jr. discusses and answers questions about his new book Forsaken in which a black laundress is accused of murder in a town dominated by Jim Crow. Set in Hampton, VA, this riveting first novel, inspired by real events, tells a harrowing tale of an honorable man in a dishonorable world and raises contemporary questions about the racial politics of justice.

"It’s 1912, and Charles Gilbert Mears, a newspaper reporter in Hampton, Virginia, has a hot story. A black laundress is accused of murdering her white employer, and Mears is in the right place at the right time to get the scoop. But as his investigation continues, he finds that the story, and his own feelings about it, are not as clear-cut as they first seemed. The accused, Virginia Christian, is a juvenile of limited intelligence, and the circumstances of the quarrel between her and her employer are unclear. As Mears slowly comes to realize, none of this matters beside the paramount fact of her race." Reviewed by Bradley A. Scott, Forward Reviews on February 12, 2016

Ross Howell Jr.'s short fiction has appeared in the Virginia Quarterly Review, Sewanee Review, Gettysburg Review, and other publications. He has taught essay and creative writing at Harvard University, Simmons College, and the University of Virginia. He is presently on the faculty at Elon University.

Two trailers for the book have been produced. The first offers a general introduction to the story: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0zzktCdLuV4. The second feature a conversation between Howell and Dr. Derry Moten of Alabama State University, whose dissertation of twenty years ago inspired Howell to create the novel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XH4PRym0u8w.
