---
layout: post
title: "Stephen Harding - The Castaway's War: One Man's Battle against Imperial Japan "
date: 2016-09-13 19:00-04:00
---
One More Page welcomes author and journalist Stephen Harding (THE LAST BATTLE) to share from his new book, THE CASTAWAY'S WAR: One Man's Battle against Imperial Japan. Based on official American and Japanese histories, personal memoirs, and the author's exclusive interviews with many of the story's key participants, The Castaway's War is a rousing story of naval combat, bravery, and determination. “Stephen Harding is an extraordinary historian, has somehow found a virtually unknown story about World War II, then told that story with such detail and precision that it comes alive—and is impossible to put down. The Castaway’s War reads like a thriller, proving again that true history has a punch that few novelists ever achieve.”—Alan Furst, bestselling author of Dark Star and Night Soldiers

In the early hours of July 5, 1943, the destroyer USS Strong was hit by a Japanese torpedo. The powerful weapon broke the destroyer's back, killed dozens of sailors, and sparked raging fires. While accompanying ships were able to take off most of Strong's surviving crew members, scores went into the ocean as the once-proud warship sank beneath the waves—and a young officer's harrowing story of survival began.

Lieutenant Hugh Barr Miller, a prewar football star at the University of Alabama, went into the water as the vessel sank. Severely injured, Miller and several others survived three days at sea and eventually landed on a Japanese-occupied island. The survivors found fresh water and a few coconuts, but Miller, suffering from internal injuries and believing he was on the verge of death, ordered the others to go on without him. They reluctantly did so, believing, as Miller did, that he would be dead within hours.

But Miller didn't die, and his health improved enough for him to begin searching for food. He also found the enemy—Japanese forces patrolling the island. Miller was determined to survive, and so launched a one-man war against the island's occupiers.

Stephen Harding is the author of nine previous books, including the New York Times bestseller The Last Battle, which is now in production as a major motion picture. Harding is also a longtime journalist specializing in military affairs. For nearly two decades he was on the staff of Soldiers, the official magazine of the U.S. Army, reporting from Northern Ireland, Israel, Egypt, New Zealand, Bosnia, Kuwait and Iraq. Currently he is editor-in-chief of Military History magazine. His contributions on defense topics and aviation, military and maritime history have appeared on National Public Radio and in The Daily Beast, Time, History News Network, the San Francisco Chronicle, Air & Space Smithsonian, World War II, Jane's Defense Weekly and Air Enthusiast.
