---
layout: post
title: "Hear author Robert P. Watson share from The Nazi Titanic - the untold story"
date: 2016-08-04 19:00-04:00
---
Join us to hear award-winning author Robert P. Watson share from his newest book, The Nazi Titanic: The Incredible Untold Story of a Doomed Ship in World War II.

Watson shares the harrowing untold story of the Cap Arcona from its glory days as a luxury ocean liner to its dark days as a Nazi barracks and then a concentration camp. When the Royal Air Force performed an air strike on ships off the coast of Flensburg, Germany on May 3, 1945 it sunk the Cap Arcona drowning over three times as many people as the sinking of the Titanic. It remains one of the world’s most tragic maritime disasters and worst instances of friendly fire.

Built in 1927, the German ocean liner SS "Cap Arcona" was the greatest ship since the RMS "Titanic" and one of the most celebrated luxury liners in the world. When the Nazis seized control in Germany, she was stripped down for use as a floating barracks and troop transport. Later, during the war, Hitler's minister, Joseph Goebbels, cast her as the star in his epic propaganda film about the sinking of the legendary "Titanic."
Following the film's enormous failure, the German navy used the "Cap Arcona" to transport German soldiers and civilians across the Baltic, away from the Red Army's advance. In the Third Reich's final days, the ill-fated ship was packed with thousands of concentration camp prisoners. Without adequate water, food, or sanitary facilities, the prisoners suffered as they waited for the end of the war. Just days before Germany surrendered, the "Cap Arcona" was mistakenly bombed by the British Royal Air Force, and nearly all of the prisoners were killed in the last major tragedy of the Holocaust and one of history's worst maritime disasters. Robert P. Watson, a prominent historian and frequent political commentator, is the author or editor of thirty-six books, including America’s First Crisis, which received a 2014 Independent Publisher Book Award Gold Medal for history.
