---
layout: post
title: "American Nations: ... Rival Regional Cultures of N America, by Colin Woodard"
date: 2016-10-17 19:00-04:00
---
Note the new location!

American Nations: A History of the Eleven Rival Regional Cultures of North America, by Colin Woodard. (Amazon (https://www.amazon.com/American-Nations-History-Regional-Cultures/dp/0143122029/), libraries (https://www.worldcat.org/title/american-nations-a-history-of-the-eleven-rival-regional-cultures-of-north-america/oclc/707969120))

An endlessly fascinating look at American regionalism and the eleven “nations” that continue to shape North America.

According to award-winning journalist and historian Colin Woodard, North America is made up of eleven distinct nations, each with its own unique historical roots. In American Nations he takes readers on a journey through the history of our fractured continent, offering a revolutionary and revelatory take on American identity, and how the conflicts between them have shaped our past and continue to mold our future. From the Deep South to the Far West, to Yankeedom to El Norte, Woodard (author of American Character: A History of the Epic Struggle Between Individual Liberty and the Common Good) reveals how each region continues to uphold its distinguishing ideals and identities today, with results that can be seen in the composition of the U.S. Congress or on the county-by-county election maps of presidential elections.-- Amazon review

We're meeting at Osteria da Nino in Shirlington -- the food is excellent, you can just order an appetizer or a drink. Please note it is not located on Shirlington's main street, but on the street that has the Post Office, around the corner from Carlyle Grand. The host knows that we are a book club, so if you don't see us, just ask.
