---
layout: post
title: "The Civil War & the Lincoln Assassination Tour of Downtown D.C. May 15!"
date: 2016-05-15 16:30-04:00
---
The Civil War & the Lincoln Assassination Tour of Downtown D.C. May 15!

Sunday, May 15. 4:30 PM

The area of downtown from near 7th St. and Pennsylvania Ave. to Ford’s Theater has an astonishing number of buildings and locales of famous personalities dating from the Civil War and the assassination. This unique walking tour will touch on the startling events that occurred at many of them.

You must RSVP to attend.

At: https://www.facebook.com/LafayetteSquareTourOfScandalAssassinationIntrigue

And to: savvyveteran@gmail.com

Meet in front of the Newseum, 555 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Sunday, May 15, 4:30 P.M.
Length of tour: About 2.5 hours. Cost: $15. Starts 4:30 PM. Some of our action-packed itinerary!:

• Begins at a historic site in front of the Newseum, 555 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
• The site which inspired an Oscar-winning movie, and where a plot to poison Southern leaders was hatched!
• The hero of Gettysburg, and of former Confederates!
• The war’s unknown great photographer
• The man who killed John Wilkes Booth—or did he?
• The most studied soldier in American history
• The secret society of “free men of color”
• The North divided: Yankees vs. Irish
• Workplace of the most famous caregiver in American history, and the nearly impossible task Lincoln gave her
• The hostelries of the Booth conspirators
• Sculptor of the Union Army’s grand pension building, and of Confederate statues too
• The little-known, unsolved attempt to kill Lincoln
• The great inventor who divided the North
• The military nurse who was the country’s most eminent poet
• The North vs. South fracas that began in the home of the Capitol architect’s wife
• The astonishing plot to kill Confederate President Jefferson Davis—or was it?
• The errant bodyguard Mrs. Lincoln blamed for her husband’s murder
• The would-be assassin slain on the White House grounds
• Booth’s other targets and schemes
• The hulking guard whose critical absence led to Mr. Lincoln’s demise
• How Booth’s brother saved the life of Lincoln’s son!
• The conspirators’ horrific fate
• A slain President’s final and noble request
• Tour concludes outside Ford’s Theater

Your guide is a former writer for the “Tonight Show”, and ex-White House speechwriter, the writer of a forthcoming book on the history of presidential politics, and author of: http://www.amazon.com/Patriots-America-Things-American-Should-ebook/dp/B00655SO9S/ref=tmm_kin_title_0?_encoding=UTF8&sr=8-1&qid=1415975803

You must RSVP to attend.

At: https://www.facebook.com/LafayetteSquareTourOfScandalAssassinationIntrigue

And to: savvyveteran@gmail.com

Think history is boring? Think again!
