---
layout: post
title: "All The President's Men - Film and Discussion at Hill Center"
date: 2016-03-04 19:00-05:00
---
Film Screening: Journalism in DC Movies - Starts Mar. 4

When: Fri, 03/04/2016 - 7:00pm to 9:00pm

Repeats every week every Friday until Sat Mar 26 2016 .

Cost: Free. Please see registration links below.
Mike Canning, author of Hollywood on the Potomac: How the Movies View Washington, DC, continues his examination of films made in and about Washington with a new series of screenings that looks at how Hollywood has treated the media in our capital city.

Entitled “Journalism in DC Movies,” the program will feature four distinctive films over four Fridays in March. The films are the iconic “All the President’s Men” (https://apm.activecommunities.com/hillcenterdc/Activity_Search/849)(newspapers), “Broadcast News” (https://apm.activecommunities.com/hillcenterdc/Activity_Search/850) (television news), “Shattered Glass” (https://apm.activecommunities.com/hillcenterdc/Activity_Search/851) (magazines) and “State of Play” (https://apm.activecommunities.com/hillcenterdc/Activity_Search/852) (investigative journalism). Canning will introduce each film, placing it in its historical context, then respond to audience questions after the screening. His presentation will highlight how the movies have sometimes captured some insightful portrayals of how DC works, as well as some of the clichés and gaffes that pop up onscreen when Hollywood casts its eye on DC. Please click on the title of each film to register.

March 4, 2016 All the President’s Men (1976):

By many accounts, this is the best Hollywood movie about Washington ever made and perhaps also the best film ever made about the practice and challenge of journalism. It also uses locations as fully and consistently as any Washington-based movie ever has. Not only are many locations used, but they are used appropriately--and strikingly. Rare for a serious political drama, the film proved a considerable financial success, earning Warner Brothers Studio over$30 million in the US in its first release. The film was also a great critical success, winning four Oscars (including Jason Robards’ supporting performance) and being nominated for four others, including Best Picture of the Year (it lost to Rocky).

The film was universally lauded, The New York Times’ rave review being fairly typical: Newspapers and newspapermen have long been favorite subjects for moviemakers,...yet not until All the President’s Men, the riveting screen adaptation of the Watergate book..., has any film come remotely close to being an accurate picture of American journalism at its best.

http://hillcenterdc.org/home/sites/default/files/programs/ALL%20MEN.jpeg
