---
layout: post
title: "Author talk: CODE GIRLS: The Untold Story of the American Women Code Breakers..."
date: 2017-11-28 19:00-05:00
---
Named to Washington Post 50 notable works of nonfiction in 2017!

Washington Post reporter Liza Mundy (The Richer Sex) will share from her new book CODE GIRLS: The Untold Story of the American Women Code Breakers of World War II. CODE GIRLS reveals the previously hidden history of the women who worked in secrecy to defeat the Axis forces in WWII. Using recently declassified government documents and interviews with the surviving women, Liza unveils their efforts to invent new technologies and techniques that helped to win the war. Many women never broke their vow and had not revealed their heroics to their own families until Liza Mundy called. And it's of special interest because several of the facilities where the code girls worked were right here in Arlington. Recruited by the U.S. Army and Navy from small towns and elite colleges, more than ten thousand women served as codebreakers during World War II. While their brothers and boyfriends took up arms, these women moved to Washington and learned the meticulous work of code-breaking. Their efforts shortened the war, saved countless lives, and gave them access to careers previously denied to them. A strict vow of secrecy nearly erased their efforts from history; now, through dazzling research and interviews with surviving code girls, bestselling author Liza Mundy brings to life this riveting and vital story of American courage, service, and scientific accomplishment.
