---
layout: post
title: "Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Museum Tour"
date: 2018-09-22 13:00-04:00
---
Following our July History Buffs Book Club discussion of "When America First Met China: Tea, Drugs, and Money in the Age of Sail," a member of the group who works at the DEA Museum offered to arrange this special tour for the History Buffs Book Discussion and Activity Group.

The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Museum's mission is to educate the American public on the history of drugs, drug addiction and drug law enforcement in the United States through engaging and state-of-the-art exhibits, displays, interactive stations and educational outreach programs. The DEA Museum provides a unique learning environment for the public to discover the role and impact of federal drug law enforcement on the changing trends of licit and illicit drug use in American history. (Optional suggested reading: Hep-Cats, Narcs, and Pipe Dreams by Jill Jonnes. For additional information only; we will not be discussing this book.)

The DEA Museum and Visitors Center is located at 700 Army Navy Drive in Arlington, Virginia. The Museum is located directly across the street from the Pentagon City Mall at the corner of Army Navy Drive and Hayes Street. The Museum is also easily accessible from the Pentagon City Metro Station, one block south of the Museum on Hayes Street. Plan your trip with Metro. Street parking in the area is limited. Paid parking is available at the Pentagon City Mall parking garage.
