---
layout: post
title: "National Portrait Gallery Visit: 1898 U.S. Imperial Visions and Revisions"
date: 2023-11-12 13:30-05:00
---
Let's have an in person event!

The National Portrait Gallery has an exhibit entitled "1898: U.S. Imperial Visions and Revisions." Several years ago, History Buffs read "The President and the Assassin" by Scott Miller. The exhibit examines events that took place during President McKinley's presidency before he was assassinated in 1901 six months into his second term.

No requirement to read any book for this in person museum field trip.

The National Portrait Gallery is in Washington DC on 8th and G Street. The Gallery Place metro (yellow line) is next to it. There are also parking garages in the area.

We will meet in the Kogod Court at 1:30 for introductions and a social hour before going upstairs to see the exhibit at 2:30. The Kogod Court has a cafe with coffee/snacks. I will find us a table hopefully near the cafe and have a sign; please feel free to reach out to me to get my cell phone number if you have concerns about finding the group.

It is not a huge exhibit (roughly two large galleries), so if you need to arrive later, you will probably find us.

Below is the National Portrait Gallery's description of the exhibit.

*First Major Smithsonian Exhibition to Examine the U.S. Intervention in Cuba and U.S. Expansion into Guam, Hawaiʻi, Puerto Rico and the Philippines*
This is the first major Smithsonian museum exhibition to examine the War of 1898 (often called the Spanish-American War), the Congressional Joint Resolution to annex Hawai‘i (July 1898), the Philippine-American War (1899–1913) and the legacy of this controversial chapter in history. Through the lens of portraiture and visual culture, this exhibition of more than 90 objects presents the perspectives of those who advocated for overseas expansion, those who opposed it and those who tried to have agency over their political futures when the United States brought Cuba, Guam, Hawai‘i, Puerto Rico and the Philippines into its sphere of power.

1898: U.S. Imperial Visions and Revisions” is co-curated by Taína Caragol, curator of painting, sculpture and Latino art and history, and Kate Clarke Lemay, historian, with assistance from Carolina Maestre, curatorial assistant for Latino art and history.
